Now I just show you the scroll view and it's already time to let go in to get rid of the scroll view.
Why the scroll you is great.
If you have a scroll label area on your screen.
But it's not so great if you have a list where you don't know how long it will be or which might be
very very long.
Now if you know you have some content maybe a list of data but you know it's only 20 items so it will
probably exceed my screen boundaries but it will never be more than 20 or 15 items.
Then you can use a scroll view.
But if you have very long lists then a scroll you can be very inefficient because what it does is it
renders all the elements in advance even the ones that are not on the screen.
That means that even the goals down there which are currently not visible are fully rendered.
And when you scroll such a very long list with a lot of elements or if you do anything else on the screen
that can really slow down your app.
If you have a list with hundreds or thousands of elements and there are all always rendered even if
you don't see them that can really slow down your app.
So in order to speed that up there is a component built into React Native that handles such infinite
lists or lists that are potentially very long in a more efficient way.
And that's the flat list component which you also import from React Native flat list replaces scroll
view.
So to say so here we can simply use flat list which is a self closing element and flat list has two
important properties the first properties to data property where you point at your input data and this
should point at an array.
So here I appoint at course goals because that's the data when output.
The second important property is the render item that takes a function which is called for every item
in your data to render a list item.
This is a function which will get some data about that item.
Hence I'll name the argument item data and then it has to return a component.
So here I'll return the same view I had before.
Just get rid of the manual mapping logic so I'll still return this view.
Now you don't need to set a key here anymore but I'll come back to how does this Keat in a second.
So now here we get the item data and therefore we don't have to goal here anymore.
An item data is a more complex object but in there what you'll have is a item property besides item
you also have to index.
So the number two position of that item India array starting at 0 and separators which would allow you
to basically render a separator as dynamically between list items not something we'll do here but item
will be your data.
So one element from your input data and that here is data from one of our goals.
And if we do that and we save this let's now learn React Native.
Maybe you're on IV the iPhone to mix things up and we can add things here.
And if I add a lot and I then close to keyboard I can scroll but you'll see that there is a warning
we expand as we see virtualize list missing keys for items.
So that is a number of warning related to keys.
The reason for that is that flat list automatically adds keys to your items but only if your data your
input data has a certain shape and or current shape where we simply have an array of strings is not
supported the shape it would expect.
Instead you don't have goals which are just strings but instead that your list is a list of objects
where you must have a key property in that object and here will actually create a random key now With
math random and then I convert this to a string because it should be a string and of course that's not
perfectly unique.
You might have the same random number twice but it's good enough for this demo here.
And now you can't have any other data in here and that object.
The key is the only must have properties.
So here I'll have a value property.
But you could have named this Val or text or whatever you want.
I'll go with value.
And this is now my entered.
Goal.
So now our course goals array here is an array of objects where each object has a key property and a
value property.
And now if we feed debt course goals array into flat list flat list is happy because it expects a data
source where you have an array of objects where every object has a key property and then anything you
want now to output our data.
It's no longer enough to X item data item because item is no object and not just a string anymore but
item will have a key and a value property now because that's what we're setting up up there and I can
simply access the value property to output the text and now if we saved as this rebuilds and therefore
now if we tried this again with learn with learn React Native close to keyboard you see we no longer
get the warning we can still scroll this of course we get no error here either because now we have that
key property here now in case you have data where you don't have a key property and you don't want to
transform it let's say you had I.D. instead which would cause a warning as you can see if I test is
we get the warning here.
In that case you can always add another property to flat list besides data and render item you can add
the key extractor property which takes a function that tells flat list how to extract your key and by
default the logic is I'll have a look at the item and look for a key property but now with key extractor
you can change this key extractor takes a function which takes two arguments the item it's looking at
and the index of that item and now you need to return a key it by default it would look for item dot
key so that's the default logic which you don't need to add.
Now here I changed the key or the unique identifier to be on an I.D. prop and therefore I will change
this down there in the key extractor to get the I.D. as a key and now with Dad you also get rid of the
warning because you went form react natives flat list how to get a unique key for every item in your
list.
So now here if you again learn React Native you're we at this you'll see this works we can scroll this
we also get no warning so that's flat list and you should use flat list for very long lists for lists
where you don't know how long they will be but where they potentially are very long because dad gives
you a better performance than the scroll view which on the other hand is great if you know you only
have a limited amount of items which will probably go beyond your screen boundaries but where you won't
have too many redundant items rendered outside of the screen.